.\"Document Author:  Timothy R. Butler   -   tbutler@uninetsolutions.com"
.TH bochs-dlx 1 "19 Jun 2014" "bochs-dlx" "The Bochs Project"
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH NAME
bochs-dlx \- Runs DLX-Linux under the Bochs x86 Emulator
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH USAGE
.B bochs-dlx
.LP
No  command line  arguments are accepted. If you  require
adjustments  to  the  normal  runtime  parameters,  edit
/usr/local/share/bochs/dlxlinux/bochsrc.txt or run bochs(1)
directly.
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Bochs-dlx
is a shell  script that runs a sample 10Mbyte  disk image
of DLX Linux inside Bochs.  Bochs-dlx is simple by design
so that it is possible to try out Bochs  without learning
how to configure it first.
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH LICENSE
This program  is distributed  under the terms of the  GNU
Lesser General Public License as published  by  the  Free
Software  Foundation.  See the LICENSE and COPYING files located
in /usr/share/doc/bochs/ for details on the license and
the lack of warranty.
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH AVAILABILITY
The latest version of this program can be found at:
        http://bochs.sourceforge.net/getcurrent.html
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH SEE ALSO
bochs(1), bochsrc(5), bximage(1)
.PP
.nf
The Bochs IA-32 Emulator site on the World Wide Web:
        http://bochs.sourceforge.net

Online Bochs Documentation
	http://bochs.sourceforge.net/doc/docbook
.fi
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH BUGS
Please  report all  bugs to the bug tracker  on  our  web
site. Just go to http://bochs.sourceforge.net, and click
"Bug Reports" on the sidebar under "Features."
.PP
Provide a detailed description of the bug, the version of
the program you are running, the operating system you are
running the program on  and  the  operating   system  you
are running in the emulator.

