.\"Document Author:  Timothy R. Butler   -   tbutler@uninetsolutions.com"
.TH bochs 1 "4 Apr 2020" "bochs @version@" "The Bochs Project"
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH NAME
bochs \- Portable x86 Emulator.
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bochs
.RI \|[ bochs_options \|]
.RI \|[ bochsrc_options \|]
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Bochs is a portable Intel Architecture  32 (x86) emulator
that runs on most popular  operating systems. Inside  the
emulator,  it  can  run  many operating systems including
Linux and Microsoft(R) Windows(R).
.\".\"DONT_SPLIT"
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
When you run Bochs without one of the following options, it
will search for a configuration file called .bochsrc in
the current directory and your home directory and display
the start menu.
.TP
.BI \-q
With this option the start menu will be skipped after loading
the configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-f\ configfile
This option specifies the name of the configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-qf\ configfile
When you run Bochs with this option, it will skip the start
menu and use the specified configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-n
With this option Bochs doesn't load a configuration file.
In that case the setup for the emulation must be done with
bochsrc options on the command line or in the start menu.
.TP
.BI \-benchmark\ N
Run Bochs in benchmark mode for N millions of emulated ticks
.TP
.BI \-dumpstats\ N
Dump Bochs stats every N millions of emulated ticks
.TP
.BI \-r\ path
Restore the Bochs state from path
.TP
.BI \-log\ filename
Specify Bochs log file name
.TP
.BI \-unlock
Unlock Bochs images leftover from previous session
.TP
.BI \-h,\ --help
Print a summary of the command line options for Bochs and exit
.TP
.BI \-h,\ --help\ features
Display available features / devices and exit
.TP
.BI \-h,\ --help\ cpu
Display supported CPU models and exit
.LP
You can override the settings from the configuration file
with command line arguments, using the  same  syntax  as the
bochsrc file. If you have  any spaces in your command line
arguments, they should be enclosed  in  single quotes.
For information on Bochs command line and configuration
file arguments, see the man page
.B bochsrc(5).

Example:
  bochs -q 'boot:a' 'floppya: 1_44=a.img, status=inserted'

.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH LICENSE
This program  is distributed  under the terms of the  GNU
Lesser General Public License as published  by  the  Free
Software  Foundation.  See the LICENSE and COPYING files located
in /usr/share/doc/bochs/ for details on the license and
the lack of warranty.
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH AVAILABILITY
The latest version of this program can be found at:
	http://bochs.sourceforge.net/getcurrent.html
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH SEE ALSO
bochsrc(5), bochs-dlx(1), bximage(1)
.PP
.nf
The Bochs IA-32 Emulator site on the World Wide Web:
	http://bochs.sourceforge.net

Online Bochs Documentation
	http://bochs.sourceforge.net/doc/docbook
.fi
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH AUTHORS
The   Bochs  emulator  was   created   by  Kevin   Lawton
(kevin@mandrakesoft.com),  and  is  currently  maintained
by the  members of  the  Bochs x86 Emulator Project.  You
can see a current roster of members at:

	http://bochs.sourceforge.net/getinvolved.html
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH BUGS
Please  report all  bugs to the bug tracker  on  our  web
site. Just go to http://bochs.sourceforge.net, and click
"Bug Reports" on the sidebar under "Feedback".
.PP
Provide a detailed description of the bug, the version of
the program you are running, the operating system you are
running the program on  and  the  operating   system  you
are running in the emulator.

