.\"Document Author:  Timothy R. Butler   -   tbutler@uninetsolutions.com"
.TH bximage 1 "9 Jan 2021" "bximage" "The Bochs Project"
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH NAME
bximage \- Interactive Disk Image Creation, Conversion, Resize and
Redolog Commit Tool for Bochs
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bximage
.RI \|[ options \|]
.RI \|[ filename1 \|]
.RI \|[ filename2 \|]
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Bximage is an easy to use console based tool for creating,
converting and resizing disk images, particularly for  use
with Bochs. It also  supports committing  redolog files to
their  base images.  It is  completely  interactive  if no
command line  arguments are used.  It can be switched to a
non-interactive mode  if all required parameters are given
in the command line.
.\".\"DONT_SPLIT"
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
When you run bximage without one of the following options,
it will  appear  in  interactive  mode and  ask   for  all
required parameters to manipulate an image.
.TP
.BI \-func=...
Operation to perform (create, convert, resize, commit, info)
.TP
.BI \-fd=...
Create: floppy image with size code (e.g. 360k, 720k, 1.44M)
.TP
.BI \-hd=...
Create/resize: hard disk image with size in megabytes (M)
or gigabytes (G)
.TP
.BI \-imgmode=...
Create/convert: hard disk image mode - see the
.I bochsrc
sample for supported options.
.TP
.BI \-b
Convert/resize: create a backup of the source image. Commit:
create backups of base image and redolog file.
.TP
.BI \-q
Quiet  mode (don't prompt for user input). Without this
option bximage uses the  command  line parameters as
defaults for the interactive mode. If this option is
given and one of the required parameters is missing,
bximage will fall back to interactive mode.
.TP
.BI \--help
Print  a  summary  of  the command line options for
bximage and exit.
.LP
The
.I filename1
parameter specifies the name of the new image (create),
the source image (convert/resize) or the base image
(commit).
.LP
The
.I filename2
parameter specifies the name of the destination image
(convert/resize) or the redolog (journal) file (commit).
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH LICENSE
This program  is distributed  under the terms of the  GNU
Lesser General Public License as published  by  the  Free
Software  Foundation.  See the LICENSE and COPYING files located
in /usr/share/doc/bochs/ for details on the license and
the lack of warranty.
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH AVAILABILITY
The latest version of this program can be found at:
  http://bochs.sourceforge.net/getcurrent.html
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH SEE ALSO
bochs(1), bochsrc(5), bochs-dlx(1)
.PP
.nf
The Bochs IA-32 Emulator site on the World Wide Web:
  http://bochs.sourceforge.net

Online Bochs Documentation
	http://bochs.sourceforge.net/doc/docbook
.fi
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH AUTHORS
The original version of bximage  was written  by Bryce Denney,
based on  several similar tools from the bochs-developers list.
The support for converting and resizing images has been added
by Volker Ruppert.
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH BUGS
Please  report all  bugs to the bug tracker  on  our  web
site. Just go to http://bochs.sourceforge.net, and click
"Bug Reports" on the sidebar under "Feedback."
.PP
Provide a detailed description of the bug, the version of
the program you are running, the operating system you are
running the program on  and  the  operating   system  you
are running in the emulator.

